



TO you of all others I might spare thit paines, you the very
practitioners, you that trade in Husbandry, of some of you I have high things
to report, both for your industry and activity; and though I am confident all
men are thirsty enough after profit and increase, yet few studiously
industrious in this design; though some esteem it matter of greatest moment,
yet you will not all be found patronizers hereof; there is such a scandall and
prejudice among many of you against new projections, that I shall beseech you
to take a loving ad∣monition in two or three particulars, The first is an
Epidemicall disease (and little less are the succeeding) and it is a great
mischief to your selves and the Common-wealth, and that is such an immoderate
plowing your land; some plow far more than they can Til or Ma∣nure, and others
all they have in common, though never so much, others plowing so oft and low,
that they draw out the marrow of it, and these are the great Improverishers of
your gallant old pasture, though fit enough to plow, & might be best
advanced thereby with mode∣ration; but into both these extremes men are so apt
to run so fast, that I desire to stop their course a little, and shall make
bold to tell them, that when half or one third part of so much land as many of
you Till, shall with that very soyl, and half the labour and seed saved, yeeld
you as much corn as all that great quantity scramblingly husbanded, that then
you are ill husbands; which you wil confess if that you wil but grant me that
which no man wil deny, that one Acre purely husbandryed (and what need any be
otherwise, or any break up more than he is able well to compass) will be as
good as two or three in many mens ordinary pra∣ctise, but in some of your
whole-sale husbandmen that plow all before them, four or five A∣cres will not
ballance one purely husbanded, then judge so much land preserved from
impoverishment, so much seed and cost preserved, and yet as great increase,
whe∣ther the opposite actors be not enemies to themselves, families and
Common-wealth. The second abuse is want of good tillage, wee lose our hopes
excedingly by this; and herein we must both have respect to season, land, and
corn; for good seasons at all times cannot be expected, yet of two evills chuse
the least. I am confident better sometimes lose the land, than land, seed, and
all your labour, as many do that outslip the season: but for prevention, begin
earlier; I am confident though it may admit of some inconveniencies some∣times,
yet at other times it is out of question, but generally both Summer and Winter
seed-time carries it away, sure it hath these advantages, that if it prosper
not, you may sow it a∣gain, or if the latter part of seed time at Michaelmas
time prove wet, you are well, ha∣ving sowed before, or the latter part of
seed-time in the Spring prove dry, as most oft it doth, you have prevented
that, and what is the great danger of growing proud in Winter, that is to mee a
vertue, and if in the Spring, it is easily taken down also; and if thou fearest
weeds, I am of opinion that the stronger and thicker any corn is, it preserves
it self the best from weeds; but there is a Medium in all things, too thick
sowing may be as bad, but this ever observe, that the earlier thou sowest, the
thinner thou maiest sow thy winter corn, and summer too, if the season be good,
and land dry and sound: And secondly, to your land you must have respect too,
Land in good tilth, in good heart and sound, in a good sea∣son, will out-cast
its very marrow, through the Lords blessing expect fruit enough: Men much wrong
their corn in not giving their Lands sufficient workmanship, I am not pre∣cise 
 in the number of Plowing nor Harrowing, but just so much and no
more than preserves the Land from weedes, and best brings the land into such a
composition that your land mould well. I shall not justify the old Proverb,
here, No balkes no corn, I say not balkes, all corn, even cleanly plowing is
most commendable and most profitable; to some grain more til∣age, to some less
is required, yet to none no less than may both cover well and yield good
bot∣tome and rooting to the Corn. And thirdly for your Corn, some graines
require more tillage, others less; some will better beat a drier season, some a
wetter; some grain more subject to one weed than to another, some grain wil do
best with two summers, and others with one: In all which consider and advise
thy self as much as thou canst of the nature of them all, and make out what
experiences thou canst thy self, and somewhat incline to the most ingenu∣ous
usage and custome of thy Country. In some cases a good custome is instructive;
but I'll be brief here, that I may be a little larger elsewhere following. The
fourth and last abuse is a calumniating and depraving every new Invention; of
this most culpable are your mouldy old leavened husbandmen, who themselves and
their forefathers have been accu∣stomed to such a course of husbandry as they
will practise, and no other, their resolution is so fixed, no issues or events
whatsoever shall change them, if their neighbour hath as much corn of one Acre
as they of two upon the same land, or if another plow the same land for
strength and nature, with two horses and one man, as well as he, and have as
good corn, as he hath been used with four horse and two men, yet so he will
continue: Or if an Improve∣ment be discovered to him and all his neighbours,
hee'l oppose it and degrade it; What for∣sooth saith he, who taught you more
wit than your forefathers, would they have neglected so great advantage if
there had been any? they kept good hospitality, and made shift to breed up many
children, &c. and I know not what simple chaff to blind themselves; this
proud un∣teachable spirit an ingenious man abhorrs, which banes and poysons the
very plenty of our Nation. These prejudices both upon your minds and practises
which boult you out from wealth and glory, my dear friends and fellow
husbandmen, I pray you lay aside, and doe but in charity walk with me a little
through this discourse, and I shall hope to satisfy that there is no other end
but common good proposed, The poor, thy posterity, and all Inte∣rest advantage
here intended by him that is as studious of thine, the Common wealths
Improvement, as his own.

