



SIR,
YOu may please
to pardon my
forward in∣scribing
this Book to
your name. Were it a

Work of mine own
composition, I should
have thought on a mea∣ner
Patron. But the
memory of that lear∣ned
Knight the Au∣thour
(to whom I had
so neer Alliance) may
excuse this presumption.
He was a great Sear∣cher
after all sorts of
Knowledge, and as
great a lover of it in
all others. And I

humbly conceiv'd I
could not doe him a
higher service than by
placing his Book under
your Protection, who
are not more honour'd
by those many Noble
Families whence you
are descended, than by
that large Portion of
Learning and Ver∣tue
which have so
enriched your Noble
mind; and rendred you

precious to all that know
you. I hope that Can∣dor
and sweetness which
accompanies all your
Actions, will also shew
it selfe in acceptation of
this Offering from him
who is ambitious of no
other title than
SIR,

